@astrojs/markdoc (#6209)
withastro/astro: examples/with-markdoc/README.md

# Astro Example: Markdoc (experimental)

This starter showcases the experimental Markdoc integration.

```
npm create astro@latest -- --template with-markdoc
```

[![Open in StackBlitz](https://developer.stackblitz.com/img/open_in_stackblitz.svg)](https://stackblitz.com/github/withastro/astro/tree/latest/examples/with-markdoc)
[![Open with CodeSandbox](https://assets.codesandbox.io/github/button-edit-lime.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/withastro/astro/tree/latest/examples/with-markdoc)

> 🧑‍🚀 **Seasoned astronaut?** Delete this file. Have fun!

## 🚀 Project Structure

> Inside of your Astro project, you'll see the following folders and files:

Author: Ah yes, was just focused on documenting the files that deserve clear explanation. Now that this starter is more-or-less stable, we can include all of these.

```
/
├── public/
├── src/
│   └── content/docs/
│       └── intro.mdoc
│   └── components/
│       └── DocsContent.astro
│   └── pages/
│       └── index.astro
└── package.json
```

> Markdoc can be used in content collections with the `.mdoc` extension. See `content/docs/` for an example.

Author: It _cannot_ be used in `src/pages/`. Will make that explicit 👍

> You can also apply Astro components and server-rendered UI components (React, Vue, Svelte, etc) to your Markdoc files. See `src/content/DocsContent.astro` for an example configuration.

Author: Yes, Markdoc does not use imports! "apply" is a better term I think.

# Astro Example: Markdoc (experimental)

This starter showcases the experimental Markdoc integration.

```
npm create astro@latest -- --template with-markdoc
```

[![Open in StackBlitz](https://developer.stackblitz.com/img/open_in_stackblitz.svg)](https://stackblitz.com/github/withastro/astro/tree/latest/examples/with-markdoc)
[![Open with CodeSandbox](https://assets.codesandbox.io/github/button-edit-lime.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/withastro/astro/tree/latest/examples/with-markdoc)

> 🧑‍🚀 **Seasoned astronaut?** Delete this file. Have fun!

## 🚀 Project Structure

Inside of your Astro project, you'll see the following folders and files:

```
/
├── public/
├── src/
│   └── content/
        └── docs/
│           └── intro.mdoc
|       └── config.ts
│   └── components/
|       ├── Aside.astro
│       └── DocsContent.astro
│   └── layouts/
│       └── Layout.astro
│   └── pages/
│       └── index.astro
|   └── env.d.ts
├── astro.config.mjs
├── README.md
├── package.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

> Markdoc can be used in content collections _exclusively_ with the `.mdoc` extension. See `content/docs/` for an example file.

Author: I wanted to use language here that didn't feel overly discouraging. This makes what you _can't_ do more clear than what you _can_ do. I'd consider removing the "must be located within `src/content/`" piece since it's implied. If you prefer "only" to "exclusively," that's fine!

> Markdoc can be used in content collections _exclusively_ with the `.mdoc` extension. See `content/docs/` for an example file.

Reviewer: The real problem is just that the adjective is in the wrong place and doesn't actually convey what you mean to convey. If you want it to sound more positive, I can do that! 

(As written, this is says you can "only" use Markdoc in content collections if you use the `.mdoc` extension. That's not the meaning we're going for.)

> Markdoc can be used in content collections _exclusively_ with the `.mdoc` extension. See `content/docs/` for an example file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Markdoc (`.mdoc`) files can be used in content collections to author your Markdown content alongside Astro and server-rendered UI framework components (React, Vue, Svelte, and more). See `src/content/docs/` for an example file.
```
What about something like this to replace the two paragraphs?

> Markdoc can be used in content collections _exclusively_ with the `.mdoc` extension. See `content/docs/` for an example file.

Author: That sounds good to me!
